Computer Networking For DevOps + System Design

Agenda:
• The Physical Internet / How the
    Internet Works
• The Addressing for internet
• How the Data moves in the Internet
    (OSI / TCP/IP Model)
• Security for the Internet (VPC)
• System Design & How to design
    Applications


stand alone is when a device it not connected to a network.
if those connected in together is called computer network
interconnected network of devices.


all devices are connected with each other with cables called optic filer over seas


world level : optical fiber cables sea ways.
at country level : WAN  network is there which is owned my a company we cay from the land recident.
city level : using MAN network it is passed to cities, here comes the IXP which sits near MAN  and send the internet to ISP Physically.
house level :   IPS pass the internet with LAN and WIFI

data is transfer using packets. from source destination. time taken for a package from source to destination is called latency.
bandwidth is the speed with the package is sent.( in another words its like the speed we discussed is the actaully speed of wire we subscribed to transfer data.) also its the bandwidth meaning how bigger package can go in one package no relation with speed.
in some cases the packages are travelled with different speed some are faster some go slow , so its called jitter.
packet loss: some segment of the package are dropped while stream is called packet loss.


lets understand the physical devices and communication:

Router: routes the packets between network.
switch : connecting multiple devices to internet at datacenter is called switch. 
HUB: old age switch.

data center: provides data, meaning the information must be travelled, so data center is the heart of internet.
CDN(content delivery network):  if the data is images or static data then its called CDN, creating a cache meaning a copy at edge location where user can access the data in short time temporarly.
local zones are used in edge computing(caching).

availabelity zone, its nothing but the same scenerio where each region have different availabelity underneeth.
better way to understand is that an apple stores in same region often serves for better providability.
